
Rev 2 of FAQ: what is adaptive tuning?



As always, comments and/or replacement entries are welcome.

=====================================================================

Adaptive tuning (also called dynamic tuning) is the process of modifying
the tuning of pitches as a piece is played, to best suit the intervals 
and chords at each moment.  Usually the goal it to achieve, or at least
approach, some form of Just Intonation (JI).

There are many choices to be made when approaching adaptive tuning:

   . Fixed Adaptive Tuning (FAT) vs. Variable Adaptive Tuning (VAT).
     See below for an explanation of this distinction.

   . Method of making tuning choices: performer vs. computer program.

   . Real-time adaptive tuning vs. "leisure" tuning, with the latter 
     able to make choices based on an entire work, and the former able
     to see only the past and present.

   . The particular tuning targeted: 5-limit JI, 7-limit JI, etc.

   . Whether exact JI intervals are mandated, or whether, for the sake
     of reducing the retuning of notes continuously sounding, intervals
     may deviate somewhat from exact JI.

   . Whether "drift", the tendency of the overall absolute tuning to 
     change progressively over time, is to be allowed, or is to be 
     forbidden.  

FAT achieves adaptive tuning by making dynamic use of a fixed set of
available pitches, almost always on a keyboard instrument.  The number 
of possible pitches is usually determined by the number of physical keys
available to the player.  This has the advantage of giving the artist 
complete control over the adaptive tuning used, at the expense of 
limiting to some extent the range of what can be done.

A method for FAT was first described by Nicola Vicentino in 1555 and 
implemented on his special harpsichord and organ.  One keyboard manual 
consists of 19 consecutive fifths tuned to 1/4 comma meantone; the other
corrects for flat meantone fifths (and minor thirds) by being tuned 1/4 
syntonic comma (5.38 cents) higher.  For more information, see [Margo's 
entry].

VAT means that there is a continuous gradation of possible tunings for
a given pitch.  VAT can be produced by some acoustic instruments, by the
human voice, and by many electronic instruments.  Barbershop singing 
makes heavy use of VAT, and to some extent, so do jazz and blues singing
and playing.  More recently, there have been experiments with retuning 
programs that apply VAT to real-time playing and/or to MIDI files.

The challenges of adaptive tuning are easily illustrated: consider the
sequence C->A->D->G->C, either with bare notes or with the chords Cmaj,
Amin, Dmin, Gmaj, Cmaj.  The ideal tunings for the four sequential
intervals are 5:6, 4:3, 4:3, 4:3, but the product of these, corrected
for octave, is 80:81, the famous (or infamous) syntonic comma.  One way
to deal with this challenge is to let the absolute tuning "drift" over
time, in this case downward by about 1/5 semitone each time the sequence
is played.  Over the course of a reasonably long piece, drift of this
sort can easily amount to a large fraction of an octave, if not more.
There is a school which accepts such drift in order never to compromise 
simultaneous intervals or retune sounding notes.  If drift is considered
unacceptable, however, then difficult choices have to be made, at least 
in modifying the tuning of notes which are continuously sounding, and 
(optionally) in compromising to some extent the tuning of intervals.

Real-time adaptive tuning by program is superior to leisure tuning in
that one need not wait for the results: as a piece is played, it is 
tuned.  However, since chord transitions often involve a several
milliseconds of overlap, not to mention slight arpeggiation of the new
chord, a real-time program can easily become confused and make bad 
choices that have to be corrected with painful motion of notes already 
sounding.  This difficulty is particularly intense when tuning targets
7 or higher limits, in which tuning deviations are much greater than in 
5-limit music.

At least one commercial program is available for real-time VAT (see link
below), and at least one list member has dabbled in leisure VAT of MIDI 
files.  The field of adaptive tuning is still in its infancy, however, 
and many refinements have yet to be made.  Also, there is a great deal 
of controversy regarding what target adaptive tunings (if any) are 
suitable, or appropriate, for works of past masters.

For further information:

   Commercial real-time adaptive tuning:

      http://www.justonic.com/

   Experimental leisure adaptive tuning:

      http://www.adaptune.com

   A real-time, computer controlled FAT piano:

      http://tigger.cc.wmich.edu/~code/groven/

