{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i \snext16 FootNote Text;}{\s16\qj\li288\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
Body Text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s18\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 footer;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\info{\title Heaven's Divine Music}
{\author Pauline Wendy Phillips}{\operator Pauline Wendy Phillips}{\creatim\yr2002\mo2\dy6\hr19\min54}{\revtim\yr2002\mo10\dy25\hr21\min32}{\version4}{\edmins6}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3762}{\nofchars18690}{\*\company Foreclosure Finders}{\nofcharsws22436}
{\vern89}}\margl2880\margr2880 \deftab288\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\adjustright \fs20\cgrid 
{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\lang1024 7}}}{\cs19 
\par }\pard \s18\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\b\fs48 1.
\par Heaven's Divine Music}{\fs48 
\par }{
\par Copyright  \'a9 1996, 2001 
\par Pauline W. Phillips
\par }\pard \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \s16\qj\fi288\nowidctlpar\adjustright {"And they [24 redeemed elders] sung a}{\i  new }{[just- intonation] song. . . ." Rev 5:9.* 
\par "And they [144,000] sung}{\i  as it were}{
 a new [just-intonation] song before the Throne, and before the four Living Creatures and the [24] elders. And no one could learn [at that time] that song but the 144,000 who were redeemed from the earth." Rev 14:3.
\par 
\par }{\fs16 *Scriptures quoted are a P. W. Phillips modernization of the KJV.                                                                                       
\par }{
\par }{\b The new song sung}{ by the 24 elders and the 144,000 is not only new in content, but also in the fact that the chromatic scale used to play and sing it is a}{\i  just }{(perfect-interval)}{\i ,}{
 rather than a meantone, well-tempered, Werckmeister, or equal-tempered chromatic scale. The scientific character of the}{\i  practical }{just chromatic scale will be discussed in later chapter lessons.
\par Having undertaken our redemption, God will spare}{\i  nothing,}{ however dear, that is necessary to completing His work. Favor is}{\i  heaped }{upon favor, gift upon gift. Heaven's }{\i whole treasury}{ is open to those He seeks to save. Having }{\i 
collected }{the universe's riches, and revealed infinite-power resources, He gives them all into Messiah's hands, and says, "All these are for humankind. Use these gifts to }{\i convince }{
them there is no love greater than Mine on Earth nor in Heaven. Their greatest happiness will be found in loving }{\i Me}{!" }{\super 1}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b The knowledge revealed}{ on how to create a practical just chromatic scale is included in the divine gifts offered us. The}{\i  }{millennia-old }{\i desire}{ to do this has been traced back to Pythagoras, Greek philosopher and mathematician, who w
as a contemporary of Daniel the prophet. After traveling widely, including to Babylon (where he doubtless met Daniel), in search of wisdom, he settled in southern Italy. While he and his disciples made considerable advances in mathematics and astronomy, n
either devised a practical just chromatic scale that would perform Western music as we know it. For the time was not ripe for the Lord to reveal this via His Music Spirit! }{\super 2}{\up6  
\par }{In 1862 Herman Helmholtz, great German doctor, physicist and professor, published a book entitled }{\i On the Sensations of Tone As a Physiological Basis for the Theory of Music}{
, which was later revised. It was translated into English and given excellent major additions by Alexander J. Ellis. Here Helmholtz, among many other things,  discuss
ed his  views  on  just  intonation,  and also Combinational tones--Difference and Sumational, the latter of which he discovered. }{\super 3}{  
\par }{\b Today there is a magazine}{ entitled }{\i 1/1}{, published by the Just Intonation Network of San Francisco, California, }{\field{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK "http://www.dnai.com/~jinetwk/" }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3c00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0064006e00610069002e0063006f006d002f007e006a0069006e006500740077006b002f00000000004a0000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {
\cs17\ul\cf2 http://www.dnai.com/~jinetwk/}}}{ that has shed some light on the just-intonation concept and of musical instruments thus tuned. But unfortunately most of those who have written on the subject seem to be interested only in de
vising scales that will perform }{\i their own}{ modernistic compositions, rather than }{\i all}{ the classical, religious, or other music already composed. 
\par Thus this magazine and most material written on just intonation has not been as much help to me as might be desired. But since 1981 on up to the present the Lord has gradually given me the needed light on the subject so I could create a }{\i practical}{
 just chromatic scale that can be used to perform Western music composed from at least the Baroque period to the present.
\par }{\b Heaven is to begin on Earth}{. God's flag over His people is love, and His fruit will taste}{\i  sweet}{ to them. So they will make a heaven here in which to prepare for Heaven above. }{\super 4}{\up6\super 
\par }{Performing and singing music in just intonation is a part of the Heaven on Earth to be made now! There should be }{\i continued }{aim to}{\i  imitate}{ the society we expect soon to associate with, namely God's angels who have never fallen into sin. }{
\super 5
\par }{What if you have been educated and trained in the}{\i  }{music }{\i art}{, and yet have never been taught to sing the}{\i  new }{(just-intonation) song? What then will all this training }{\i amount}{ to, if you have not been }{\i properly}{
 trained to be the Lord's family members, God's sons and daughters? }{\super 6}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b Satan (as Lucifer) had once led the heavenly choir}{. He had raised the first note, then all the angelic host united with him. And }{\i glorious}{ (just) music strains had resounded through Heaven. But }{\i now }{(from before 1879), rather than }{\i 
sweetest}{ music strains, there is heard }{\i discord }{(equal temperament)! }{\super 7
\par }{Adam's and Eve's affection and praise songs to God rose }{\i sweetly}{ and reverentially to Heaven,}{\i  harmonizing }{with the exalted angels' songs. The holy pair raised their voices in}{\i  harmonious}{
 love, praise and adoration songs to our Father and His dear Son for the love tokens which surrounded them. The angels united with Adam and Eve in }{\i harmonious}{-music }{\i holy}{ strains, and as their songs pealed forth from blissful Eden. }{\super 8}
{\up6\super 
\par }{\b David sang in an}{\b\i  inspired }{\b manner}{, playing upon the harp, producing the most }{\i enchanting }{music. He felt, in a small degree, that holy joy }{\i all}{
 the saints will experience at God's voice when their captivity is turned, and God makes a Peace Covenant with all who have kept His Commandments. He sung his psalms, which express his thoughts and meditations of divine things,  accompa-nied with }{\i 
skillful}{ music upon the harp and }{\i other}{ instruments. }{\super 9}{\up6\super 
\par }{The above suggests the first }{\i known}{ }{\i scientific}{ light on just intonation was given to }{\i David}{ rather than Pythagoras. For besides being an }{\i inspired}{ musician who played and sung in a }{\i divine }{
manner, he invented or improved a number of musical instruments for use in the Temple services (1 Chron 23:5; Neh 12:36; Amos 6:5).
\par The prophet Isaiah caught the sound of music in God's Kingdom, and song, such music and song as, save in vi
sions from God, no mortal ear has heard (as of 1915 when the writer died) nor mind conceived (before me in the mid 1980s). "The ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and 
g
ladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away." "Joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody." "As well the singers as the players on instruments shall be there." "They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing for th
e majesty of the Lord." Isaiah 35:10; 51:3; Psalm 87:7; Isaiah 24:14. }{\super 10}{\up6\super 
\par }{In the Temple in Jesus' day the Jews' and Israelites' ears regaled with the }{\i richest}{ music. }{\super 11}{ Thus David's kind of music was }{\i still }{performed by the Levites of the 1st century A.D.. Whe
n Ellen White described Heaven's music, she very often referred to it as being "rich," "richest," "sweet" or "sweetest." 
\par }{\b Music played in just intonation}{ produces strong }{\i harmonious}{ Combina-tional tones--Difference and Sumational--produced when two or more pitches are played together as }{\i intervals }{or chords}{\i .}{ }{\b Difference }{
tones are the strongest and are sub-harmonics }{\i below}{ the pitches played. They produce the }{\i rich}{ quality music White said in vision she heard the angels and saved play and sing. 
\par }{\i Sumational}{ tones are the same pitch as some harmonics of the tones played, and are }{\i above}{ the fundamental notes pitches. And they can often be heard }{\i louder}{
 than some harmonics of the individual tones when played separately. The most noticeable are usually octaves of the fundamental or the 5th harmonic pitch. They produce the }{\i sweet}{ quality of heavenly music. 
\par Helmholtz described these }{\i rich }{and }{\i sweet}{ tones scientifically. }{\i I}{ have heard them }{\i clearly}{ while playing hymns on my experimental just-intonation organ. And the sound is i
ndeed very rich and sweet--just like Heaven's music! White said she }{\i heard}{ this music--}{\i not}{ live, but in }{\i vision}{. I've }{\i played}{ and heard it }{\i live}{!
\par }{\b Upon Mount Olivet}{, as Jesus slowly ascended to Heaven from among His disciples, there floated down to them the }{\i sweetest}{
 and most joyous music from the angel choir. When He reached Heaven's courts, triumph songs mingled with music from angelic harps, till Heaven seemed to overflow with delightful }{\i harmony}{ and inconceivable joy and praise. }{\super 12}{\up6\super 

\par }{White said all should sing with the spirit and understanding. Because God is not pleased with jargon and }{\i discord }{(dissonance)}{\i .}{ And the nearer God's people can approach to correct,}{\i  harmonious}{
 singing, the more is He glorified, the Church benefited, and unbelievers favorably affected. }{\super 13}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b Most intervals}{ in the equal-tempered scale are very}{\i  dissonent}{--out of perfect tune--and cause beats, and are thus often of a high}{\i , or even theoretical }{(+ 256 range)}{\i , }{
harmonic number. Organ reed stops have the most harmonics to a given note. These harmonics or pitches above the note played produce the quality of the tone--flute, string, trumpet, et, cetera. 
\par The highest harmonic that can be }{\i heard }{in a 32' organ reed stop at the lowest C is about # 256. And with the higher-pitched reed stops the highest
 harmonic number heard is even lower, as the higher harmonics are beyond our hearing range. Thus any key-of-C harmonic number above # 256 }{\i is theoretical}{. 
\par In great contrast, the harmonic numbers used in a practical just scale are 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 17, 19, 21,
 27, et cetera, or their multiples. The lowest order of harmonics produce the most harmonious intervals. Thus just-intonation tuning is grand, harmonious, rich, sweet and melodious!
\par }{\b Evangelists would convert many more people}{ if the musical instruments used were tuned just, and if the singers, including the congregation, sang in just intonation. Such heavenly music would have a very powerful }{\i impact }{
upon the psyches of all present. Thus it is easy to see why in this day and age Satan does not seem interested 
in just intonation, even though he as Lucifer used it in Heaven when he was there. Historically, the nearest thing to it has been the Roman (& Orthodox) Church music. }{\super 14}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b In 1857 White said she was shown}{ Heaven's}{\i  perfect }{order, and was enraptured as she listened to the }{\i perfect }{(just) music there. After coming out of vision, the singing here sounded}{\i  very harsh }{
(sharp, grating, jarring, raspy) and }{\i discordant }{(dissonant, inharmonious, unmusical)}{\i .}{ She saw companies of angels, who stood in a hollow square, everyo
ne having a gold harp. At the end of the harp was an instrument to turn to tune the harp or }{\i change }{the tunes. (key-signature changers--pitch adjusters for certain strings). Their fingers did}{\i  not }{
sweep over the strings carelessly, but they touched }{\i different }{strings to produce different sounds. There was one angel who always led, who first touched the harp and struck the note, then all joined in the }{\i rich, perfect }{
(just) music of heaven. It cannot be described (as of 1857 to her death in 1915). It is }{\i melody, heavenly, divine}{! }{\super 15
\par }{White said she heard Messiah's voice that sounded like many musical instruments, all in}{\i  perfect }{strains,}{\i  sweet}{ and }{\i harmonious.}{  It thrilled through her whole being, and surpassed any music she had ever heard. }{\super 16}{
\up6\super 
\par }{Oh, what heavenly music White heard! There was}{\i  not one inharmonious}{ note. Let men and women satisfied with their}{\i  dwarfed, crippled }{condition in divine things be suddenly transported to Heaven and for an instant witness the high, holy }{\i 
perfection}{ state that ever exists there--}{\i enchanting}{ music in }{\i melodious }{strains rising in honor of God and the Lamb. }{\super 17}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b Oh, what value we may see every day}{ in God's }{\i unspeakable}{ gifts! Shall we not now}{\i  tune }{our minds to praise God from whom all blessings flow? Let us shape our words into joy and thankfu
lness songs for His beautiful gifts. If we would be among those who will praise God in the world to come, we must }{\i begin}{ to praise Him }{\i here,}{ }{\i now.}{ We must }{\i tune}{ our minds to }{\i Heaven's}{ music}{\i .}{
 In Heaven Messiah will place the harp in our hands, and our voices will be raised in such music as we have }{\i never heard }{on Earth (as of 1909). God longs that His people shall catch the }{\i heavenly }{music strains. He has put a }{\i new }{
song on our lips. }{\super 18}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b White told a man he needed different employment}{. Because he was engaged in the business of piano tuning that is }{\i exceedingly trying}{
 to the nervous system (before tuning instruments were invented). He needed to get away from all the perplexities of the piano-tuning business, to save his brain and soul. I
t was not wise, merely because he could make money readily, to continue in the work of tuning pianos, when this affected his nervous system. In many cases She advised out-of-doors work for piano tuners, telling them that unless they changed their business
, they would have to deal with}{\i  insanity. }{That man would better not remain in the business of piano tuner. Any out-of-doors work would be better for him than tuning pianos. }{\super 19}{\up6\super 
\par }{Why? Because as early as 1800 in Germany and 1850 in France and Great Britain, and soon in the United States, pianos were not only tuned to the equally-}{\i tempered dissonant}{
 scale, but the high octaves are stretched besides--so their harmonics will not clash too much with the lower notes. And before electronic tuning devices were available it was very hard for most piano tuners to tune accurately. 
\par My brother was a piano tuner-technician, so I know what he said about the business agrees well with what White said for many tuners. If pianos were tuned to just intonation, there would be little
 or no problem to the ears, mind, nor nervous system of anyone with a musical ear! But they would have to be constructed differently to do this and provide the needed extra notes..
\par }{\b In Heaven angels will bring harps}{ (representing all musical instruments), a
nd Messiah will present them to the saints. The commanding angels will first strike the note, and then every voice will be raised in grateful, happy praise. And every hand will }{\i skillfully}{ sweep over the harp strings, sending forth }{\i melodious}{
 (harmonious) music in }{\i rich }{(Difference tones) and}{\i  perfect}{ (just-intonation) strains. }{\super 20}{\up6\super 
\par }{If we ever join the redeemed's song above, we must}{\i  begin}{ to sing the song}{\i  here.}{ If we would fill Heaven's vault with }{\i rich }{(Difference-tone) music, we must}{\i  learn}{ the praise }{\i notes}{ below. }{\super 21}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b During the deepening shadows}{ of earth's last great crisis the hope and trust song will be heard in }{\i clearest }{(just-intonation) and}{\i  loftiest }{(Combinational-tones) strains. We should endeavor  in our praise songs to approach }{\i 
as nearly as possible}{ to the heavenly choirs' harmony (play and sing in just intonation). }{\super 22}{\up6\super 
\par }{White said that on a Christmas evening she was wrapped in a vision of God's glory in Heaven. Music strains fell upon her ear,}{\i  melodious }{(harmonious)}{\i , perfect}{ (just)}{\i ,}{ and }{\i entrancing. }{What a son
g that will be when the Lord's ransomed meet! All Heaven is filled with}{\i  rich}{ (Difference-tone) music. Strive with }{\i all }{the power God has given you to touch the golden harp and fill all Heaven with}{\i  rich }{(Difference-tone) music. }{
\super 23}{\up6\super 
\par }{The riches, glory and honor, offered by Messiah are of such infinite value it is beyond men's or even angels' power to give any just idea of their worth,}{\i  excellence }{and }{\i magnificence.}{ When He comes in His glory, while the most }{\i 
enchanting}{ music strains fall upon the ear, all will be interested. There will not be }{\i one}{ indifferent spectator! }{\super 24}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b There will stand the risen host}{. Then the angelic choir strike the victory note, and the angels in two columns take up the song.  And the redeemed host join as though they had been singing the song on Earth, and they}{\i  have been.}{
 Oh, what music! There is not an}{\i  inharmonious}{ note. }{\super 25}{\up6\super 
\par }{In Heaven in every hand is placed the shining harp. Then, as the command- ing angels strike the note, every hand sweeps the harp strings with }{\i skillful }{touch, awaking}{\i  sweet}{ (Sumational-tone) music in}{\i  rich }{(Difference-tone),}{\i 
 melodious}{ (harmonious) strains. Rapture}{\i  unutterable }{thrills every mind, and each voice is raised in grateful praise. }{\super 26}{\up6\super 
\par }{Let none suppose they can live a selfish life, and then, having served their own interests, be fitted for the heavenly courts. The angels' voices and their harps' music would }{\i not}{
 satisfy them. To their minds the musical science (truth about & practice of just intonation) of Heaven would be as an enigma. }{\super 27}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b At a piano tuners' convention}{ I attended with my brother just intonation was demonstrated on a reed organ tuned thus. After hearing it, some piano tuners present said they }{\i preferred}{ the}{\i  dissonant}{ equal temperament! And some who
 have written to}{\i  1/1}{ magazine have expressed themselves similarly. 
\par As has often been said, there's no accounting for taste. But those whose music concept is loud rhythmic }{\i noises}{ do not appreciate subtleties in harmony, melody,}{\i  pure }{intervals and chords, nor Difference and Sumational Combina-tional tones.

\par In the victory day all the universe triumphs. The angels' harps send forth the most }{\i precious}{ music, accompanying the vocal melody. }{\super 28}{\up6\super 
\par }{\b Why did Revelation in the New Testament}{ use the lyre or kithara, translated "harp," to represent Heaven's musical instruments? As I showed in my 144,000 of Revelation 14 discussion, 
\par }\pard \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK "http://www.prophecyspirit.com/prophecy3.html" }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b5a00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00700072006f00700068006500630079007300700069007200690074002e0063006f006d002f00700072006f007000680065006300790033002e006800
74006d006c000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs17\ul\cf2 http://www.prophecyspirit.com/prophecy3.html}}}{, the kithara was the most ad-vanced an
d best Greek musical instrument. On many such lyres the strings were tuned just, or could be made so by retuning the strings as needed while playing via a wood "finger" device made for the purpose.}{\up6  }{
With it the performer could momentarily bend a string's whole or half pitch microtonally or more higher. }{\super 29}{\up6\super 
\par }\pard \s16\qj\fi288\nowidctlpar\adjustright {So }{\i clearly}{ Revelation portrays }{\i just-intonation tuning}{ being used in Heaven's music. As mentioned, White said she even saw in vision the heavenly harps having }{\i tuning }{
devices. And the double action modern true harp has seven foot pedals to retune the "white-key" strings as needed to either flats or sharps.}{\up6  }{\super 30
\par }{\b At some of White's meetings}{ it has been said angels could occasionally be heard accompanying a solo vocalist.  If we do not hear any angels singing today in our sanctuaries, perhaps it is in part because we use the }{\i wrong}{
 tuning for our instruments and voices. No angel wants to sing out of tune. Hearing }{\i us}{ do it is bad enough as it is without him joining in! 
\par When I attended the Hollywood, CA, Seventh-day Adventist Church, which had a choir that included many Filipinos, and who sang very well under its }{\i professional}{
 choir director, I once heard the singing sound as if an angel choir were singing some distance }{\i behind}{ the church choir! The best }{\i group}{ singing I have ever heard was by Pacific Islanders who had converted to Christianity.
\par The congregational singing in some churches which do not use musical instruments to accompany the singing sounds very, very fine, and is probably sung in quasi just intonation.
\par "If there were no other proof of the infinite patience of God, a very good one could be found in His toleration of the . . . noise that proceeds from musical instruments under the pretext of being in His 'honor'."  --Thomas Merton
\par Thus the above discussion makes clear, it is now }{\i high }{time for us to begin }{\i playing}{ and }{\i singing}{
 in just intonation. And my later discussions concerning just intonation theory and my just-temperament organ will show how this can be done.
\par }\pard \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b Heavenly Melody
\par }{
\par In this room from the case of my organ tonight
\par rolls a melody sweeter than psalm.
\par In celestial-like strains pure harmony falls
\par on my ear like an infinite calm.
\par 
\par There comes to my ear one sweet strain,
\par a just-intonation refrain.
\par I play it again and again,
\par pure tone, the gift of God's love.
\par 
\par Today I hear sweet music,
\par like none we heard before,
\par come floating truly earthward
\par as through Heaven's open door.
\par It sounds like angel voices,
\par  in strains of melody,
\par that swell in mighty chorus
\par around the Deity.
\par 
\par Now just, and pure, and restful
\par it fills my soul with peace,
\par as if God's own pure music 
\par could make Earth's troubles cease.
\par Much grander than the voices
\par of anyone heard by me,
\par it fills the room completely
\par with heavenly harmony.
\par 
\par Oh pure celestial music,
\par heard from a Land afar,
\par the song of Heaven here now
\par through doors God left ajar.
\par 
\par This music ever haunts me
\par like something heard in dreams.
\par It seems to sound the cadence
\par of Heaven's living streams.
\par My ear is filled with rapture,
\par to think, so soon to come,
\par I'll play it with the angels,
\par the song of heavenly tone.
\par 
\par --Pauline W. Phillips,  Sabbath, 10/5/85
\par Lyrics revised and expanded based on the hymn, "There Comes to My Ear One Sweet Strain."
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 Notes
\par }{
\par }\pard \s16\qj\fi288\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs16 Words, phrases, clauses, Sentences 
and paragraphs with superior numbers which are not direct quotes may contain information beyond the writers' or sources apparent intent, especially Ellen G. White's writings, which are often magnified similarly as are the Scripture texts under discussion.
 Such magnification may or may not be indicated with parentheses}{.
\par }\pard \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \s16\qj\fi288\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs16\up6 1}{\fs16 Ellen G. White, }{\i\fs16 Desire of Ages}{\fs16  (Mountain View, CA, 1940), p. 57.
\par }{\fs16\up6 2}{\fs16 "Pythagoras," }{\i\fs16 Webster's Biographical Dictionary}{\fs16  (Springfield, MA, 1972).
\par }{\fs16\up6 3}{\fs16 "Introduction," by Henry Margenau (New York, 1954), unnumbered.
\par }{\fs16\up6 4}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 Testimonies for the Church}{\fs16  (Mountain View, 1948), VII, 131.
\par }{\fs16\up6 5}{\fs16 White in: Arthur L. White, }{\i\fs16 The Ellen G. White Biography}{\fs16  (Hagerstown, MD, 1981-86), I, 466.
\par }{\fs16\up6 6}{\fs16 White, S}{\i\fs16 ons and Daughters of God}{\fs16  (Washington, 1955), p. 179.
\par }{\fs16\up6 7}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 The Signs of the Times, }{\fs16 (Jan. 16, 1879).
\par }{\fs16\up6 8}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 That I May Know Him}{\fs16  (Washington, 1964), p. 13; White, }{\i\fs16 The Spirit of Prophecy}{\fs16  (Washington, 1969), I, 26, 27; White, }{\i\fs16 Lift Him Up}{\fs16  (Hagerstown, MD, 1988), p. 20.
\par }{\fs16\super 9 }{\i\fs16 Spirit of Prophecy}{\fs16 , I, 387, 412.
\par }{\fs16\up6 10}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 The Story of Prophets and Kings}{\fs16 :}{\i\fs16  As Illustrated in the Captivity and Restoration of Israel }{\fs16 (Mountain View, 1943), p. 730.
\par }{\fs16\up6 11}{\i\fs16 Spirit of Prophecy}{\fs16 , II, 345.
\par }{\fs16\up6 12}{\i\fs16 Desire of Ages}{\fs16 , p. 830;  White,}{\i\fs16  Bible Echo and Signs of the Times}{\fs16  (Aug. 1, 1887).
\par }{\fs16\up6 13}{\i\fs16 Testimonies}{\fs16 ,  I, 146.
\par }{\fs16\up6 14}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 The Great Controversy}{\fs16  (Mountain View, 1950), p.566.
\par }{\fs16\up6 15}{\i\fs16 Testimonies}{\fs16 , I, 146.
\par }{\fs16\up6 16}{\fs16 Ibid., p. 181;  White, }{\i\fs16 Early Writings}{\fs16  (Washington, 1945), pp. 270, 271.
\par }{\fs16\up6 17}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 Selected Messages}{\fs16  (Washington, 1980), III, 431; }{\i\fs16 Testimonies}{\fs16 , II, 266.}{ 
\par }{\fs16\up6 18}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 Bible Echo and Signs of the Times}{\fs16  (April 1, 1889); White, }{\i\fs16 Advent Review and Sabbath Herald}{\fs16  (Jan.  21, 1909); White, }{\i\fs16 Manuscript Releases}{\fs16  (Silver Spring, MD, 1993), XXI, 28. 

\par }{\fs16\up6 19}{\i\fs16 Manuscript Releases}{\fs16  (Silver Spring, MD, 1990), III, 351; XXI, 134.
\par }{\fs16\up6 20}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 The Adventist Home}{\fs16  (Nashville, TN, 1952), p. 537.
\par }{\fs16\up6 21}{\i\fs16 Signs of the Times}{\fs16  (Sept. 16, 1889).
\par }{\fs16\up6 22}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 Education}{\fs16  (Mountain View, 1952), p.166; White, }{\i\fs16 Evangelism}{\fs16  (Washington, 1970), p. 507.
\par }{\fs16\up6 23}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 Life Sketches }{\fs16 (Mountain View, 1943), p. 171, 172; White, }{\i\fs16 Maranatha: The Lord Is Coming}{\fs16  (Washington, 1976), p. 361;  White, }{\i\fs16 The Upward Look}{\fs16  (Washington, 1982), p. 118.

\par }{\fs16\up6 24}{\fs16 White,}{\i\fs16  Second Advent Review and Sabbath Herald}{\fs16  (March 18, 1880).
\par }{\fs16\up6 25}{\i\fs16 Maranatha}{\fs16 , p. 300.
\par }{\fs16\up6 26}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 God's Amazing Grace}{\fs16  (Washington, 1973), p. 357.
\par }{\fs16\up6 27}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 Christ's Object Lessons}{\fs16  (Washington, 1941), p. 364. 365.
\par }{\fs16\up6 28}{\fs16 White, }{\i\fs16 Comments}{\fs16  in the }{\i\fs16 SDA Bible Commentary}{\fs16 , VII-A (Washington, 1957), VI, 1088.
\par }{\fs16\up6 29}{\fs16 "Kithara," }{\i\fs16 Harvard Dictionary of Music}{\fs16  (Cambridge, MA, 1979).
\par }{\fs16\up6 30}{\fs16 "Harp," Ibid.
\par }}