These sound examples belong a thread at the tuning list on guidelines for
chord progressions starting with post
http://launch.groups.yahoo.com/group/tuning/message/75982.

The solutions are shown by two staffs. The upper stuff shows the
actual chord pitches (I didn't bother to implement voice leading rules
here, so things like Bruckner's "law of the shortest path is
violated"). The staff notation is in 31 ET (i.e. the interval C D# is
7/6). The lower staff shows the chord roots in staff notation plus
there ratios expressed as a product of the untransposed chord ratios
and a root factor for each chord ratio. These ratios automatically
derived from the 31 ET pitch classes and only inteded to help reading
the notation. In case of pitch class ambiguities their may even be
mistakes (i.e. the wrong ratio might be chosen).

Also, some of the ratio factors may look odd at first. If the
untrasposed chord ratios don't contain 1/1 then the factor is not the
notated chord root. Still, the resulting product ratios do contain
1/1.

All these examples have been created with the composition system Strasheela.

  http://strasheela.sourceforge.net/ 

You can find Strasheela examples which lead to similar results in the following Strasheela examples file.

http://strasheela.sourceforge.net/strasheela/examples/HarmonicProgressions-31ET.oz

Following is an excerpt from the mail which discusses these examples
in particular (see below).

Torsten Anders
April 2008

---

Anyway, we can certainly also do non-diatonic 7-limit chord
progressions. I did some examples which start in C, use only
ascending/strong progressions, wander through keys so to speak, but
end again in C major with some sort of a cadence. We could use, e.g.,
some septimal scale instead for a cadence, but leaving any cadence off
entirely or ending in another key feels less convincing (less closed)
for me. However, I would very much welcome alternative suggestions
concerning endings :) Also, there are some inversions now so that the
bass sometimes progresses stepwise.

Naturally, there exist many such progressions. I uploaded a few examples to 

http://launch.groups.yahoo.com/group/tuning/files/TorstenAnders/ChordProgressions/ChordProgression-*

The same limitations are mentioned before apply: no voice-leading
rules applied for simplicity and no preparation or resolution of any
dissonances.

In an actual composition, I would likely further structure a
progression, e.g., have some sub-progressions which are repeated in
different transpositions. These may coincide with motif relations. In
a first attempt, I did chord progressions where the transposition
interval and the chord "type" (i.e. in intervallic relations within
the chord) repeat every four chords as in a sequence.

I uploaded these examples to 

http://launch.groups.yahoo.com/group/tuning/files/TorstenAnders/ChordProgressions/ChordProg-wSequence-*

Comments and recommendations for better approaches are of course
appreciated :)

