More study is needed to assess reliablity of the tests (which I find
should be improved, considering different spectra, dissonance models,
real aural experiments, etc.), but here are a few conclusions from the
data, assuming they are valuable:

Examples are in my files directory:
http://launch.groups.yahoo.com/group/tuning/files/HudsonLacerda/


-- "Absolute" dissonance/consonance by itself is not how "people"
(actually the computer model) IDENTIFY chords in tempered scales,
since the range of dissonance varies a lot according the the specific
pitch dispositions. The pitch-class structure is relevant for chord
type identification.

The model could find perfect some perfect-triad dispositions that are
more dissonant than some dispositions of {C,D,Eb} (ID=2), and some
dispositions of {C,D,F} (ID=9) (a pentatonic subset) that are more
dissonant than some dispositions of {C,C#,D} (ID=1). See c3mod12.png
and c3mod12diss.txt.


-- Traditional "consonant" chords, like perfect triads, have a narrow
range of dissonance, usually reach the minima for all classes (with
equal number of elements). They have limited ability to sound
dissonant. See c3mod12.png ID=11, ID=9, ID=12.


-- Some symmetrical vagrant chords get relatively small dissonance
values in tempered scales: aug5 triad (ID=12 in c3mod12.png) or dim7
chord (ID=29 in c4mod12.png).

I think that is because tempering increases the dissonance of
otherwise (pure, JI) consonant chords; also, those symmetrical chords
are built on consonant intervals (M3, m3). (Functional dissonance is
another matter, of course.)


-- Inversion-related set classes showed minima, maxima and mean values
very close, which supports the view that they are similar
(c3mod12.png).

Nonetheless, one cannot ignore the presence of other sets with similar
statistics. See ID=13 (0148) and ID=15 (0157) in c4mod12.png.


-- Statistics for Z-related sets (which are different but have equal
interval vectors) were not too much different (in 12-EDO): see ID=9
and ID=11 in c4mod12.png and results12.txt.

However, there may be other sets with similar data. See ID=9 and ID=14
in c4mod12.png. Also check Z-related pentachords in results12.txt.


-- For chords with 5 tones (always assuming tempered scale), the
amount of dissonance is very dependent on the specific pitch
disposition (and register).

The model could find a pentatonic chord which is more dissonant than a
cluster-based one (see c5mod12diss.txt):

C D E G A         (diss = 5.6814, the highest value for this set)
C Bb A C# B       (diss = 2.4888, the lowest value for this set)

N.B.: C = 261.63Hz, an octave below middle C.

I could limit the pitch range in further tests, to avoid comparing
3-octave-range chords with chords that fit inside one octave. Anyway,
I find the result above itself interesting as it dramatizes the
opposition of chord identification and chord dissonance; that could be
explored in musical applications.

Hudson Lacerda